in this video i will show you how to use
ap
game tools with unity ap game tools is a
blender add-on that helps you optimize
and export objects to game engines like
unity and unreal
check the description below on where you
can buy it and how to install
let's get started to set up ap game
tools pipeline with blender and unity
you need to first install a gltf
importer
currently i recommend uni gltf i'll
provide a link in the description
to install unigltf go to the link and
download the latest unity package
in your unity project go to assets
import package
custom package and open the uni gltf
package you just downloaded
when prompted press import if it
installed correctly
you should see a new menu at the top
called uni gltf
the next step is to save your blender
file in the same location
as your unity project
now you can select the objects you want
to export and press export for game
engine
this will automatically import into
unity with the material and shader setup
correctly
if you make any updates to your mesh or
your material and press
export again it will make those changes
automatically
this is true with modifiers as well it
automatically applies modifiers on
export
so you can add a subsurface modifier or
decimate modifier
and non-destructively change your mesh
there are two options to export export
for game engine
exports the object with the location
data
center and export for game engine will
reset the location of the selected
objects to 0
0 0
of course you can select all of your
models to export just be aware it might
take a long time to export and a long
time to import
depending on the complexity of your
scene
if you want to keep the material set up
in unity you can duplicate the material
you like
so it doesn't update when you press
export the next time
now just reapply the material you want
if your object has textures ap game
tools will automatically transfer those
over as well
if you have a complex material and it
doesn't export correctly
like this material i got from polygon
then you might need to simplify it or
bake the textures out before exporting
you can bake however you like i prefer
the add-on simple bake
for this material it looks like i need
diffuse roughness
and normal after baking your material
should look something like this
now when you export it should work
correctly
if your objects have parents they will
not export correctly
you will need to clear the parents first
before you export
to see the progress of your exports you
can open the console
on windows you press window toggle
system console
now you can see the progress of your
exports
if you want to cancel the export click
on the console window
and press ctrl c
if you don't save your blend file in the
unity project folder
you can still drag and drop models into
your project it will work the same
however it will not automatically update
the mesh or materials if you drag the
updated model in
so just be aware of this limitation
i hope this video was helpful let me
know if you have any questions